>> Before we get started, have a look up here
for some first instructions to get started.
What we are going to do during the hands-on session is
actually set-up some video conferences with each other
so that we can try out iChat Theater
as we build the project.
So find somebody near by and set up a
computer-to-computer Bonjour network.
Once you have that set up, when you
log into Bonjour you should be able
to see the other person there and set up a video chat.
I'll give you guys just a minute to do that.
( Background noise )
>> Okay. Let's get started.
This is session 202, Sharing Your
Application's Content with iChat Theater.
My name is Peter Westen.
I'm an engineer on the iChat team.
And we're going to talk about the demos that we saw during
Steve's Keynote, where Phil was able to share content
in his Keynote presentations or in iPhoto or even
directly out of Finder in a middle of a video chat.
So what's iChat Theater?
It begins with content in another application, whether it's
Keynote or iPhoto or QuickLook running inside of Finder.
And then when you have a running video chat with another
buddy, iChat Theater allows that application to send video
and audio through that video chat so that it
can be shared with the person on the other side,
who doesn't need to have the same
software on their computer.
Example, clients would be iPhoto
and Keynote, which we saw on Monday,
QuickTime Player can, of course, also send
movies directly into iChat Theater.
Other applications could send 3D
content into =a video chat and hopefully
after today you're application's content as well.
Before we get into the meat of things, there
are a few things iChat Theater does not do.
First thing is screen sharing.
There's no shared control.
It's a presentation of the content you have
on your computer with a buddy.
So events, mouse clicks, any of that stuff does not
come back into your application from the other side.
It's not video chat in your application either.
Sorry, that's not what we are doing today.
This is about getting the content in your
applications and putting it into iChat.
It also not Quick Look, although it works with Quick Look
and that's something that was also shown on Monday.
So before we go any further, let's take a
brief tangent and talked about Quick Look does.
It's a new technology in Leopard that allows small bundle
to be written for your application;s document type in order
to present a preview without actually
having to launch your applications.
It's file based, which means you need to have a document
on disk that can be used to generate a preview.
If your application's content is stored in documents,
then you might want to consider writing a
Quick Look preview generator and leaving it at that,
because iChat can use that preview generator to
produce content that gets shared in the video chat.
But it does have limited interactivity.
Quick Look only supports the most basic of operations,
like a dancing forward or back player, pause.
So if you have more complicated manipulations that you
can do with your contents such as changing the perceptive
in a 3D scene, then that's not going to work.
There's also limited fidelity.
Keynote slides, for example, don't have any of the
transitions that are supported in the Quick Look preview.
It's the most bare bones simplification
of the content that's in that document.
But the biggest advantage is that there's no extra work
if you've written a Quick Look preview
generator for your document type,
iChat can use that, the user can
even drop the document directly
onto a video chat in order to share it with iChat Theater.
The session I believe is right after this one.
It's 213 and it talks about how to
write Quick Look preview generators.
So with that out of the way, let's
talk about the iChat Theater API.
It's a Cocoa API and it's divided into three major parts.
The first is session control.
Of course, we need to be able to start and stop these
sessions, but more importantly your application needs
to integrate those actions in the workflow of
that application in the way that's most appropriate
and that's the decision that's
left up to you and your designers.
Video can be provided to iChat
Theater in two different ways.
Last year we talked about implemented
low-level callbacks to provide video.
We heard a lot of feedback that there should be an easier
way so, this time around we've got support for NSViews,
so you can just set an NSView as
the source content for iChat Theater
and that will get sent directly into the video conference.
And then audio, there's also two ways
providing audio content into your video chat.
The first is a very simple, it just uses NSSound, which can
be configured to send its audio directly into iChat Theater
and there are low-level Core Audio callbacks
if you want more fine grain control.
So first let's talk about session control.
The most important part of the
entire API is the IMAVManager class
and there's a single shared instance
that you will do everything through.
All you have to do is import the IMAVManager.h
header into your code file and then ask
for the sharedManager out of that class.
And that object is going to be the one place
where you get state information to find
out what state the iChat Theater session is in as well
ask it to start or stop and configure audio and video.
It's very important that you register for notifications.
The iChat Theater session depends on iChat and so if
iChat isn't running you won't be able to start a session.
When it is running, you begin a session and there's
some extra states that tell you when the conference is up
and running and you should be providing
frames of video to the conference.
So there are two important parts to
registering for that notification.
The first is, of course, the notification name itself.
IMAVManagerStateChangedNotification,
but also it's important that you register
for this notification using the notifications
center published by the IMService class.
That's another part of the InstantMessage framework and
the reason we do is that iChat Theater wants to be lazy
about connecting to iChat and getting
information about iChat Theater.
So subscribing to this notification is actually
a hint to the framework that you're interested
and if you do not subscribe to the notification,
we won't know and we won't connect to iChat.
So the state will always be not available. And then each
time you are interested in the starting or stopping
of iChat Theater, you'll generally want to get
the state to find out what you're able to do
and that's simple accessor to get the state.
So let's talks about those starts, there are six.
The first is IMAVNotAvailable.
When you launch your application, this is what the states
going to be because it has not yet connected to iChat.
Once you subscribe to that notification,
we'll connect to iChat, get the state
and it will then generally transition to Stopped.
That means that iChat Theater can be started.
Now it's important to note that this
is the state of the IMAVManager,
not the state of the current iChat
Theater session the user might be having.
For instance, if another application is in
the middle of sharing through iChat Theater,
the state from the perspective of your application is
going to be stopped, because if the user were to start
from your application the other one would be
cutoff and your application would then step in.
Once you start a session it will transition
through StartingUp and from there to Pending
and what this means your application is
connected to iChat, we're ready to go,
but the video conference itself either isn't running
or the extra video channel for sending that video
from your application hasn't been set up yet.
So it will be in the Pending state for some period of
time and from there it will transition to IMAVRunning,
which means that the session is active, the video frames
that you're providing will be sent to the other user
and then when the session shuts down
it will go through ShuttingDown
and from there back to Stopped and you can start over again.
So running a session only has a few steps.
The first is to set a video data source.
IChat Theater needs a way to get the
video and this can either be an NSView
or custom object you've written yourself. And that's
simply done through these setVideoDataSource method.
And then you have a couple of options, this is a
bit mask and you can set two options right now.
The first is called IMVideoOptimizationStills and
what this is, is a hint to the encoder for the video chat
that you're content will remain largely static.
And what that allows us to do is increase the
size of the buffer used for the video chat
so that image quality can be greater, because we
know the bandwidth requirements will be lower,
well, encode and send a video frame across the other side
and then it won't use up very much bandwidth after that.
So, more bandwidth can be devoted
to video from the user's iSight.
It's important that you only set this option if you know
that your video will remain static for periods of time,
many seconds for a Slideshow or even an extended
period of time if it's some other application,
if you're looking at a picture or some other image.
If you set this and you do have a, you know,
video that's changing every single frame,
the result is going to be pretty poor performance
and the quality of the video won't be very good.
There's also another option.
IMVideoOptimizationReplacement and what this does, is it
forces iChat Theater to replace the local user's iSight video
with your content instead of sending both side by side, and
the result of that, of course, is that we can devote every bit
of available CPU and bandwidth
resources to that video that you've sent.
For the most part, you won't bother sending this because
the person's video is nice to have alongside the content,
but if you have really important content that
you want to have as high fidelity as possible,
you may want to set this option.
If you don't set it though, it's not a guarantee that the
video will be side by side, because if we're in a video chat
with somebody running Tiger for example,
it doesn't support iChat Theater,
that's what we'll do automatically as a compatibility mode.
Then once the options are set and
you have a video data source,
you begin the session by simply calling
start and when you are done you call stop.
Now that's the basic part of session control,
the hands on project that we've got is just
going to talk about that part of the API.
So we'll get started with that.
Michael Estee also from the iChat
team will be my buddy here during our video chats.
And so if you got the iChat Theater Headstart
project downloaded, go ahead and open that up.
Let's switch over to the demo machine.
So there are two folders in there, Finish
is the end state, we're going to want to be in
and Start is our beginning state for this application.
So the Slideshow project is pretty straight forward.
First off, let's just see what this does.
It's a simple application which loads images out
of your desktop Pictures folder and displays them
in a Slideshow, but it doesn't do much else.
It's not very interesting.
So let's combine this with iChat Theater.
So does everybody have this project
loaded up on their computers?
Raise your hand if you got that there
and you'll be able to follow along.
Great. You'll be able to get a decent amount even
if you don't have this loaded up on your machine.
So we'll quit that and have a look
at the code in this application.
It's very simple in the starting case.
All this does so far is have one method to start and stop
the Slideshow in a custom view, which displays the images
and it changes the image on the
start and stop button accordingly.
A command from the main menu of the application
to toggle whether it's running or not
and then a validateMenuItem method, which will enable
and disable the start and stop Slideshow menu item.
And then an application delegate method to make the
application terminate when you close the window.
This class will be instantiated once in the main
menu .nib and is the application's delegate,
but right now it doesn't do anything else.
So in order to make this work with iChat Theater, first
thing we need to do is add the framework to the project.
So open up your Frameworks group on the side and then
in the Project menu, we're going to say Add to Project.
Right there.
And in your Group Volumes System Library Frameworks
folder, you'll find the InstantMessage framework.
In addition to iChat Theater this framework also supports
getting presence information about buddies from iChat.
That session was yesterday.
So go ahead and add that framework to your project
and choose the target and then we'll go back
to our main controller class and in here
we'll go ahead and import the header.
Now, to keep things simple we've just put all of the code
into the starter project we need and we're just going
to remove comment lines so we can activate
different portions of our implementations as we go.
So just go ahead and remove the
comment line surrounding the import.
And build to make sure that we've done everything we need to.
Build succeeded, but it still doesn't do anything yet.
So the next thing we need to do
is subscribe to that notification,
as I've mentioned before it's important
that you do this because without
that notification subscription the instant
message framework will never get the hint
that you're interested in iChat Theater.
So in the applicationDidFinishLaunching method just
below, we'll remove those two comment lines and again check
that we've subscribed to the right stateChangedNotification
and that we'll also using the IMService notificationCenter,
which is our custom center that we use in order
to tell when people are subscribing
and unsubscribing to these notifications.
So again, still we're not doing
anything very interesting yet,
we need to actually have a command
to start and stop iChat Theater.
So for that we'll go to the header file for the
controller where we have the toggleSlideshow action method
and right above it we'll have a new
one we add called toggleTheater.
Go ahead and remove those two comment lines.
Save that file and now let's open MainMenu.nib
and hook up a new action.
So in the Resources group, MainMenu.nib is right there.
Now the new version of InterfaceBuilder you don't
need to reimport headers if you create your main menu,
open up the main menu here under
File menu we'll add a new menu item.
I'll do this just by duplicating Play Slideshow and we'll
retitle that, Start iChat Theater, and then we're just going
to control drag from this menu item to our
controller object in order to hook up the action.
All this is pretty elementary Cocoa development.
And InterfaceBuilder has seen
that we added a new action method
to the header and we'll just connect that right there.
Go ahead and save that and back to our
project and we'll make one more change
to actually add the implementation of
that method before we try things out.
So if you scroll down a little ways, there's a section
called Headstart Step 3 and this is our action method.
So go ahead and remove those two comment lines and we'll
talk for a little minute about what's in this method.
So the first thing we're going to do is grab the
shared AVManager and then ask for its state.
Since we are going to start and stop based on that state.
If the state is stopped then we need to start it.
And as we said, there are three steps you need to do.
You need to set your video data source, need to set your
optimization options, and then you need to start the session.
So that's what we've done here, we have an outlet
to the slideShowView, a custom NSView subclass.
We're going to set the VideoOtimizationStills option,
because we're going to have an image that remains static
for a very long time, so this particular
video stream isn't going to require a lot
of bandwidth and then we start the session.
And as soon as that's started we'll
also make the Slideshow itself begin.
This is something Objective-C too that sets
the state of slidesShowView to running.
If the state of the manager is not stopped, then
we'll stop the session and stop the Slideshow as well.
So let's see how that works.
So now we've got our app, the menu item is still there.
It is now there and we'll start up the video
chat with Mike here and see how it works.
( Background noise )
>> Where are you?
Hey, Mike. I want to show you some really cool photos I got.
So instead of just beginning the Slideshow, we're going to
choose Start iChat Theater from the menu and there we go.
That's all it takes.
As you can see, even the transitions between the slides
are rendered perfectly into the shared video stream.
So that Mike can see them. And to stop we'll
just choose that same menu item again.
We'll talk about a little bit more
about configuring that menu item.
Now I want to talk about another possible
way to begin an iChat Theater session.
You don't have to have a video chat running first.
The user can either choose who they are going to talk
to first or they can choose what they are going to share.
So they can go into your application, even if a video
chat isn't running, the state will be IMAVStopped,
which means you can start it if you want to.
So if the user chooses share with
iChat Theater at that point.
iChat will come to the front and
prompt the user to begin a video chat.
In addition, this particular order of operations is
important if the user doesn't have a video camera at all.
If you don't have an iSight connected to your computer,
you go into the other application
choose Share with iChat Theater.
iChat will come to the front and then it will be
as if a camera had been connected to your computer.
You're then able to invite someone to a video chat,
which you can't normally do without a camera and as soon
as they connect the iChat Theater state will move to running
and will start sending frames across to the other side.
So let's just try out that opposite order here.
We'll go back into our application.
Choose Start iChat Theater and iChat comes
to the front and says iChat Theater is ready.
And then I'll go ahead and invite
Mike to another video chat.
Well, what's the problem?
Our Slideshow is running, so Mike's missing
out on the whole beginning of this Slideshow.
Maybe even the whole end if this thing connects slowly.
I'll just go ahead and cancel that for now.
So how do we synchronize those two actions?
Go ahead and quit the application and let's look
back at our implementation of this action method.
What we did was start the session and
then immediately start the Slideshow.
So that means when the session state moves from
stopped through starting up and to pending,
we've already started showing our slides.
So the way to do that is to use the notifications that
we subscribed to in order to synchronize the beginning
of the Slideshow with the iChat Theater session.
So the next thing you should do is select these lines, which
start the Slideshow right away and remove them entirely.
Now if we left things as they are, the user would
have to say, begin sharing with iChat Theater
and then once the video chat had connected, they'd have
to go back to the Slideshow application and then hit play
to actually begin the Slideshow, but we don't want
them to actually go through that amount of work.
So, we'll look at the method which
we subscribe to that notification.
If you go down a little ways, the stateChanged method,
it's implemented, but there's, the
contents of it are commented out.
So if you look at what's in here, all we
have to do, remove those two comment lines
and see that the playSlideshow method, which is the same
method invoked from the toggleSlideshow action method.
We're going to call from the stateChanged, so
what this means is, instead of starting a session
and starting your Slideshow at the same time, we're going
to start the session, wait for it to begin, and as soon
as it is actually connected and we know video can
be shared, then we'll start the Slideshow.
So all this does is grab the manager as well as the state
if it's running, play the Slideshow, otherwise stop it.
So let's see what that does.
So this time when we say Start iChat Theater, iChat comes
to the front, prompts me to invite Mike to a conference,
you'll see that the Slideshow is still black.
It's waiting for us to begin.
( Background noise )
>> Bonjour here seems to be a little bit slow.
So as soon as Mike connects, we negotiate the extra
video stream and than the Slideshow knows to begin.
So the only other thing we need to add to this application
to make it a little bit more polished
is to validate that menu item.
This again is very straight forward.
If you back to controller.m and scroll up a
little bit ways, scroll up a little bit there,
you'll see the validateMenuItem method,
go ahead and remove those two comment
lines and look at what we are doing here.
So, if the action that we're validating
is toggle theater from the menu item,
simply grab the state from the shared AV manager,
if it's greater than or equal to starting up,
which means starting up, pending, or running then the menu
items title should be Stop Sharing With iChat Theater,
otherwise it should be Share With iChat Theater. And then the
menu item should be enabled if the state is not available
and that goes for enabling a menu item if you also
want to have a button or even a check box in your UI
to determine whether or not you're
going to use iChat Theater.
Simply use that single state to know whether
or not you're able to begin or end a session.
And with that last change, we'll
try our application out again
Share With iChat Theater.
Once it begins the menu item will change
to Stop Sharing With iChat Theater
and if I end my video chat, we know that
the session stopped.
So our state immediately reacts and stops the
Slideshow and if I quit iChat entirely right now,
the InstantMessage framework will let us know
and this menu item will now be disabled
because the user can't start sharing.
And that's everything you need to do.
Let's go back to the slides.
(Clapping) Thanks, Mike.
( Clapping )
>> So that's the most important part of
integrating iChat Theater with your application.
Beginning and ending a session needs to be integrated
smoothly with the workflow of your particular application
and you want to give it a lot of thought.
For iPhoto and Keynote, for example, we
made sharing with iChat Theater an option
that you have during an actual presentation.
So with iPhoto you choose a Slideshow, when you say play one
of the options you choose is also to
send that Slideshow to iChat Theater.
With Keynote they have a special menu
item to begin presenting the slides,
but immediately send them to iChat
Theater and begin that session.
In your applications it maybe modal.
You might have single option on your entire application
to share the content you have immediately live
or you might have a specific task within your
application that will be integrated with iChat Theater.
So, make sure you give that a lot of thought.
We gave this element of the API a lot of
flexibility as far as what the developer can do.
So that's session control.
The next thing to talk about is how
you get video into iChat Theater.
Again there are two different ways, you can either
specify in NSView and let us take care of it for you
or you can implement a couple of low-level callbacks
so that you can provide exactly the content you want.
The easiest way is to use an NSView.
If you subclass a standard NSView then you can simply pass
that into iChat Theater using the setVideoDataSource
method and when we need a frame we will render what's
in your view on the main thread, so you
don't need to worry about thread safety.
And we're going to do this by calling
-diplayRectIgnoringOpacity:inContext:.
So this is a standard AppKit method.
We'll have set up our own context, and we'll,
and this method will render not only your view
but any subviews it has, taking into account
any opacity they have below it and taking
that image and sending it into iChat Theater.
One thing to remember though is that the size of the video
isn't necessarily going to correspond to the size of your view.
And the way we get around that is by applying a transform
to the context we're asking the view to render
into that will scale its bounds into the size of the
actual video frame and the result is exactly the same
as running your entire application at
a different resolution scale factor.
There's a session, I believe it's right after this one
on Making Your Custom Controls Resolution Independent,
basically what this means in a nutshell, is that
instead of focusing on pixels you'll focus on points.
So make sure that all of your lines, your text are all
aligned to each other according to the coordinates
in the AppKit coordinates system instead of assuming
that pixels and points are equal to each other.
What this means is, for instance, you could have a view that's
very, very small when it's rendered into the video buffer
for iChat Theater the quality of the content
actually goes up and text will have more detail
and your images can have more pixels
that actually get shared
in the iChat Theater buffer then that
are actually displayed onscreen.
There's also a lab, I believe it's on
Friday to actually tune your applications
to make sure that they are resolution independent.
And the only other thing we need from you, if you are
using a regular NSView is to -setNeedsDisplay.
Again we don't want to render this image more often then
necessary, so make sure that you use the regular Cocoa view
and validation mechanism, -setNeedsDisplay
will see that that's happened
and then rerender the view into our buffers.
If you do any other weird shenanigans inside drawRect or
use other ways to display an update of the views onscreen,
we won't know about it and we'll never ask for a new frame.
There are a couple of special cases, QTMovieView
is probably the easiest one to use.
It will be able to render off the main thread
because the QTMovie object that's underneath
that QTMovieView can control access to
the video frames that are inside of it.
So we're able to render simultaneously
onscreen and for iChat Theater.
-setNeedsDisplayP:YES is not required, because if the
movie is playing we'll know to get new frames from it
and we won't rerender frames if
the movie is paused, because again,
we can just get at the information in the QTMovie.
Audio comes for free, if you set a QTMovieView
as the video data source for iChat Theater,
then any audio that's in that movie will find its way
into the conference without you doing any extra work.
NSOpenGLView is also another special case.
It will take a snapshot on the main
thread. Because we don't have any control
over the OpenGL context and the rendering that you do,
when we need a frame, we will go onto
the main thread and take a snapshot
of whatever has most recently been
rendered and then use that.
-setNeedsDisplay:YES is also required for this one, even
though you don't strictly need it with an NSOpenGLView,
again it's our only hook to know whether
or not we should capture a new snapshot.
QCView is very similar to NSOpenGLView;
we'll also take a snapshot on the main thread.
In the case of QCView though, -setNeedsDisplay is not
required because we're going to go ahead and capture a frame
from that view every single time we need one.
QCViews generally have animation
that's going pretty constantly,
so we'll just grab a frame every
time we are able to get one,
which does mean that the IMVideoOptimizationStills option
is not settable for this particular video data source.
If you do want to have fine grain control you can
drop down to using our low-level video callbacks.
So let's talk about those.
What are the advantages?
The first advantage is that when you use the low-level video
callbacks that we offer, they render off the main thread,
which means that any updates that are happening
onscreen can be done simultaneously
while filling a buffer for iChat Theater.
You have complete control over the shared content.
When we ask you to fill a
buffer, there's nothing in it.
You can put exactly what you want in there.
For instance if you want some UI that's visible on
screen to the user who's giving the presentation,
but don't want that to be visible
to the other side, you can do that.
There's been with optimization that is under your control
now, instead of relying on tricks using setNeedsDisplay,
the video callbacks that ask for frame
have a simple return value, yes or no.
You can say no, nothing has changed,
use the last frame that I've gave you.
And the last thing is that you will have is fine grain
control over frame scheduling, so that audio synchronization
and the synchronization between the user's video
and your video can be as accurate as possible.
So let's talk a little bit about
how this video architecture works.
The InstantMessage framework, which is inside
your application space will create a frame.
Pass that to a render callback, which you'll implement.
When you've filled that buffer, you'll hand it back to us.
The InstantMessage framework will then
take that frame and send it to iChat
where it then can be encoded using the
video encoder and sent across the other side
to the buddy that you're video chatting with.
Video callbacks, there are two different kinds.
You can either choose to implement CVPixelBuffer-
based callbacks, which are in main memory bitmaps
or you can implement CVOpenGLBuffers, which
allow you to render OpenGL content into the buffer.
And you should choose whichever buffer
type is most appropriate for your content.
It will probably be pretty obvious which one you need
to do based on the kind of rendering that you do.
Then for each kind of buffer
type, there are two callbacks.
There's one callback which will set options
for the kind of buffer you want to fill
and that will be called once immediately
after you -setVideoDataSource:.
So choose your video data source, it will implement
this method, as soon as you pass it into iChat Theater,
we'll ask it what kind of buffers it wants, and
then, of course, there's the actual frame callback.
So you'll implement one pair of these methods, either the
option and frame callback methods for CVPixelBuffers
or the options and frame callback
method for OpenGLBuffers.
So first let's talk about pixel buffers.
The first method is the pixel format that we need to know.
We'll create pixel buffers in whatever format you want.
So, implement this one method, it will get called
after -setVideoDataSource and pass out into
that parameter the pixel format you want.
This one is kCVPixelFormatType_32ARGB, which
is the kind of pixel format you want if you want
to derive a graphic context out of the pixel
buffers that we hand to you in the frame callback.
Not every single pixel format is
supported by CVPixelBuffers.
So you'll have to choose one that does work for those.
And then in the actual frame callback we will
give you the CVPixelBuffer that you should fill
and then also a timeStamp that you should be filling
for and we'll talk a little bit more about that.
And then in each one of these callbacks,
whenever it's made,
if nothing is changed since the last frame, return no.
This means, of course, that the very first time
that we make this call you shouldn't return
no because we do need a starting frame.
Make sure you don't retain the buffer.
These are being recycled in a buffer pool and
we don't want to rapidly fill up memories.
So make sure you let this buffer go one you filled it.
And then lock the base address as you would
in order to actually fill the buffer directly.
The other thing you can do and this
is in the sample code that we have.
In the Headstart if you look in Slideshow view it
takes the CVPixelBuffer and uses the base address
and the pixel format to create a CGGraphics
context so that you can issue Quartz
or Cocoa drawing commands in order to fill it.
And then unlock the base address, very
important, before you return from the method.
So let's look at a sample implementation.
The first thing is to determine whether
or not the content is changed or not.
That's something you know.
So you'll need to determine that in
order to return no when necessary.
Then, lock the base address.
When that succeeds, make sure that you
get the dimensions of the pixel buffer.
They are not guaranteed to be the same for every session
and they are not even guaranteed
to be the same for every callback.
iChat is going to dynamically scale these buffers as the
bandwidth availability to the conference changes over time.
So you want to make sure you get
the dimensions every single time
and render appropriately for whatever size that we give you.
Then get the base address, fill the
buffer in whatever way is easiest for you,
unlock and return yes to signal that
the frame is ready for us to use.
So, OpenGL buffers work similarly.
The initial callback that we will make when you
set the video data source is to specify the context
and the pixel format that you're going to rendering with.
And that's looks like this.
It's parallel to the other method.
There are two parameters that you need to pass out; one is
the CGLContextObj and the other CGLPixelFormatObj.
Notice that, at least in this little sample here we're using
mySharedContext and we'll talk about why it's important
to use a shared context if you're going
to be rendering off the main thread.
And then in the frame callback
method it works very similarly.
We'll hand you a CVOpenGLBuffer to fill as well
as the virtual screen number you should be using.
I'll talk about that in just a
second and the timeStamp as usual.
So, just as with the pixel buffer
callback, if nothing has changed, return no.
Again, don't retain the buffer.
Then you'll attach that buffer to your context using the
virtual screen number that we give you, render your scene
and then when you are done call
glFlush(); and then return yes.
So the sample implementation here is pretty
similar, again, if nothing is changed return no
and then take the shared context that you are
using for this rendering and we're going to sign it
to a special value called CGL_MACRO_CONTEXT
and this is very important if you want to be able
to render off the main thread while you
are still rendering on the main thread.
So let's talk about how that works for a minute.
Multithreaded OpenGL actually is possible.
And the key is to drop the idea of
having a current OpenGL context.
If you have two threads that want to be able to render at
the same time and one sets its context as the current one,
starts drawing, and then the other thread
sets its current thread and starts drawing,
well, it's changed the context that you have and then suddenly
OpenGL functions are going to get start getting dispatched
from two different threads to the same
context and things go south very quickly.
So in order to make this work, if
you import this special header,
OpenGL/CGLMacro.h, into every source
file that does OpenGL rendering,
it will redeclare every single OpenGL
function to invisibly take an extra parameter.
And that parameter is the CGL_MACRO_CONTEXT.
So any commands that you issue from that point
forward are going to go to the CGL_MACRO_CONTEXT
that you have declared no matter what scope
that it's in.
You can declare in a global, you can declare it in an
ivar of a class, you can declare it in a method parameter
or even just use a local variable in your function.
So the way that this will work is if you have two
threads, the callback thread that is rendering
for the iChat Theater and the main
thread rendering onscreen.
In each one you would first set the CGL_MACRO_CONTEXT
to the appropriate context even
if these are going to be calling the same methods.
In order to render the scene, all you have to do is pass
that CGL_MACRO_CONTEXT into each one of those methods
so that they get directed to the appropriate one.
So the offscreen context is rendering for iChat Theater
gets the shared context and the main context will be used
for the main thread and from that point on they can
each issue commands to the GPU that will go directly
to the context that they are intended for.
So that's how that works.
So once you've declared the appropriate context you want
to do your drawing in, attach to the buffer and make sure
that you use the screenInOut parameter we've passed in.
This is the OpenGL virtual screen number,
99 out of 100 of you are going to be able
to just use this value directly in the attached function.
In very rare cases you're going to want do
rendering on a specific rendering device.
Cases are very rare, perhaps you have a machine
with five-year-old Rage 128 Pro and you also want
to support having a modern OpenGL, a
modern graphics card in the same machine.
You might want to do rendering on a specific device.
That's not going to apply to very many
of you, but if you do want to render
to a different device then the one
we've passed into the function.
It's important that you write that value back into
that parameter so that we know what's happened.
The CVOpenGLBuffers don't have a width and height the
way a CVPixelBuffer does, so the appropriate function
to use for this one is the CleanRect, which will give
you the bounds that you should be using and you can pass
that directly to glViewport in order to configure
the rendering that you do from that point on.
Any other GL commands you dispatch
after that will go into your context,
get rendered, call GL flush and then return yes.
And at that point iChat will be able to take that
OpenGLBuffer and read it back into main memory
for the video conference encoder to use
and it will get across to the other side.
Now the other parameter that we haven't
talked about yet is timestamps.
Both of the frame callback methods have this extra
parameter and we only talked about it briefly last year.
So there's a very important way to use this
when you are implementing your callbacks.
This is a CVTimeStamp, the relevant field in here is
called hostTime.
We'll have just called CVhostTimeGetCurrent
before making the callback into your code.
So you want to pull that value out.
Do your normal rendering of the frame and then before you
return from the method you'll write an adjusted value back
into that hostTime before giving the buffer
back to the InstantMessage framework.
So the question is, how do you get from
the timeValue that goes into the method
to the adjustedTimeValue you'll pass back out?
Here's the problem that we're trying to solve.
Suppose iChat is making callbacks into
your video data source at 20 frames per second,
but your content is, for example, a
movie which has 30 frames per second.
What's going to happen?
Of course, we're going to have to drop any frame that
comes and goes in between two subsequent frame callbacks.
If the timestamp parameter is ignored and you leave it
as it is, then iChat will take those frames, encode them,
send them to the other side and they'll
be displayed at 20 frames a second.
But the video won't look quite right, because
these frames are being displayed uniformly in time,
but they weren't sampled from your
content at a uniform rate.
So how do we fix this?
Instead, whenever you receive a frame callback adjust
that timestamp backwards in time to correspond to when
that frame first appeared in your application.
When the next callback comes in, because our
callback is coming in at the tail end of when
that frame is visible, the adjustment will be larger.
If you do this for every single frame, iChat will
be able to use that information and when the decoder
on the opposite side of the conference displays those
frames, it can actually schedule them for display
at the frame rate that is consistent with
when they were sampled from your content.
And this corresponds more accurately to the situation that
we are really in, which is dropping every third frame.
And when you do this, this will allow us to synchronize the
audio from the user's microphone with the audio provided
by your application and we're able to then synchronize
that audio with both video streams much more accurately.
In our Slideshow sample it's a little bit different.
It doesn't have frames, per se, instead it shows
a still image for an extended period of time,
it does a cross-dissolve between two different
images and then it shows the next slide
for a period of time and then cross-dissolves again.
So what's the right behavior for this kind of pattern?
The first callback, of course, gets adjusted
back to the beginning of the Slideshow.
Any callbacks that come in during one of the cross-
dissolves can be rendered for exactly that time,
because you can just use that timestamp to determine
where in that crossdissolve you need to render.
So those can actually go straight through and render
for exactly those periods of progress in the transition.
Each callback that comes in after a transition has
completed should be adjusted back to the end
of the previous transition so that on the remote side that
cross-dissolve ends at the time it's really supposed to.
If that timestamp were left as it were, then the last frame
of the cross-dissolve would last a
little bit too long on the other side.
Now an added convenience is that you can use this adjustment
to determine whether you should be returning no right
at the beginning of this frame callback and
this is exactly what the Slideshow view sample
in the iChat Theater Headstart does.
Whoop. Too far. Let's go back to where we were.
So, the same code that adjusts the timestamp back to the
beginning, to the end of the previous dissolve can be used
to compare to the previous timestamp that you rendered for.
So what the Slideshow view sample does is
it adjusts the timestamp back to figure
out whether it should be displaying a single image or
a cross-dissolve and sees that it's the same timestamp
that it returned from the previous call and says,
I can just bailout and return no in that situation.
So that's how video works.
And the last part is audio.
Again there are two ways to provide
sound to an iChat Theater session.
The first is to use NSSound.
This is a new bit of API added
to Leopard and with any NSSound
that you can have you can have it send its
audio directly into the iChat Theater session.
First thing you need to do with the iChat
Theater session itself is configure the number
of audio channels you want to have.
Typically you'll just set one.
The only allowable values for this are 0, 1, and 2.
0 indicates you're not interested
in sending audio to the session at all.
1 means you have a single channel
of sound you liked to provide.
2 is really just a convenience
in case you have stereo sound
and you don't want to have to do any mixing on your own.
At the end of the day, all of the audio that gets sent
into iChat Theater is mixed down into a single channel
with the user's microphone input
and sent across the conference.
So then once your iChat Theater session has connected and
the state is IMAVRunning, you can get an audio device
and a channel layout used for sending
audio into the session.
And the two methods for that are audioDeviceUID
and audioDeviceChannels.
The first is an NSString which identifies a special audio
device, which is used for getting sound into iChat Theater.
And then an array of channels that will
be the same number that you've asked for.
So if you asked for one channel, that array will have
one NS number in it and if you've asked for two channels,
it will be an array of two and its numbers.
You can't count on the channels being zero and one.
They might be three and four or seven and nine.
So once you have the NSSound you'd like to play, all
you need to do is set the audio device that you've got
out of the IMAVAudioManager and the method
for that is called setPlaybackDeviceIdentifier
and that's a new API in Leopard.
And then you need to set the channel mapping.
What the NSSound needs to know how to do is
which, is direct certain channels of its sound
into the channels that have been set up in iChat Theater.
So if the sound has one channel, then that channel sound
should be sent into all the channels you've set up
for iChat Theater, which is probably also just one.
It is important that you know how many
channels that particular sound has.
Ninety-nine percent of the time it will just be a
single channel sound and this is how you set it up.
So the mapping works as an array, so the first item in
that array corresponds to channel zero of the NSSound.
If you only have a single channel sound you
take the single channel from the IMAVManager,
which is in the channels array there, you package
that inside an array which maps index zero
to the NS number inside the other array which is
the channel of the audio device that we've got
and set that as the channel mapping on the sound.
So again, for a single channel it's direct.
That mapping array maps to a single,
either NS number or an array of NS numbers.
If you have a two channel sound, index zero should contain
the first channel you got out of the channels array
from the IMAVManager and the second
should contain the second.
And then simply play the sound and its
contents will go into the iChat Theater session
and be heard on the other side of the conference.
One thing that is very convenient, if you download the
full iChat Theater sample from the developer site,
it also includes examples for using OpenGLViews,
threaded and nonthreaded, that has a pair of files
which declare a category method on NS Sound,
adds two simple methods, play mono for iChat
Theater and play stereo for iChat Theater
and that has the most correct implementation of
how you should play your sounds into iChat Theater.
I recommend that you just download that project, dump
those files straight into your application and use those.
That way you don't need to worry about the details.
So, low-level Core Audio callbacks are also available
if you want to have finetune control over the content.
Again, you'll use the same audio device and
channel layout that you get from the IMAVManager,
but you need to convert those into a
Core Audio device that you can then use.
So it's a little bit involved.
Bear with me, we can get through this bit of code.
The first thing you need is an
AudioValueTranslation structure.
This is used for Core Audio function
to convert the NSString we gave you
to the audio device ID that you'll use with Core Audio.
The input to that is the deviceUID, the string that you got
from the IMAVManager and the output is the AudioDeviceID
that you want to have at the end of the function
call, which is AudioHardwareGetProperty.
You'll pass in this parameter here,
kAudioHardwarePropertyDeviceForUID that says,
I'm going to give you a struct, which has an NSString for
an audio device and I'd like to get the AudioDeviceID out.
Pass in that AVTranslation struct and when that call is
completed, you will have the AudioDeviceID that you need.
And what do you do after that, that's
outside the scope of this session.
Using the Core Audio device is
a whole other topic, of course.
I think those sessions have already taken place, so you
may want to get the DVDs from the conference to check
out what was in those, if you didn't
get a chance to see them.
Those two sessions were 402 and the lab I think
has also taken place, so that might not matter too.
So that's how you send audio into iChat Theater.
So in summary, again there are three parts.
Most important part for your application is session control.
I want you to think very hard about how you are going
to integrate starting and stopping iChat Theater
with manipulating content inside your own applications,
synchronizing the presentation of that content
with the state of the iChat Theater session.
Two ways to provide video, the first is to use NSViews.
They do have some pitfalls, and then using low-level Core
Audio callbacks if you want the maximum amount of control.
And then for audio, NSSound and Core
Audio are both available to you in order
to provide sound into the iChat Theater session.
If you'd like to get more information, our
evangelist is Matt Drance.
He works on all the sharing technologies
that we have in Leopard.
We have a new mailing list called
ichat-dev@lists.apple.com.
Until Leopard ships we won't be able to talk in too
much detail on that list about the new Leopard APIs,
but that will be ready for general consumption as soon
as Leopard is ready. And of course, all the documentation
and sample code that we talked about
today is on the attendee's site.
And with that the iChat Lab is actually
immediately after this session down in Lab D
and the entire iChat engineering team will be there
to help you guys if you like to get started trying
to see how you can integrate iChat
Theater into your applications.